# Order Book Programming Problem

## 1. Background

Suppose your great aunt Gertrude dies and leaves you $3,000 which you decide you want to invest in the Acme Internet Widget Company (stock symbol: AIWC). You are willing to pay up to $30 per share of AIWC. So you log in to your online trading account and enter a limit order: "BUY 100 AIWC @ $30". It's a limit order because that's most you're willing to pay. You'd be willing to pay less than $30, but not more than $30. Your order will sit around in the market until you get your 100 shares. A limit order to buy is called a "bid".

But you're not the only prospective buyer for AIWC stock. Others want to buy it too. One is bidding $31/share for 200 shares, while another is bidding $29/share for 300 shares. When Warren Buffett wants to sell 225 shares, he's obviously going to take the highest price he can get for each share. So he hits the $31 bid first, selling 200 shares. Then he sells his remaining 25 shares to you at $30/share. Your bid size reduced by 25, leaving 75 shares still to be bought.

Suppose you eventually get the full 100 shares at some price. Next year, you decide to buy a new computer and you need $4500 for it, and luckily the value of AIWC has appreciated by 50%. So you want to sell your 100 shares of AIWC stock for at least $45/share. So you enter this limit order: "SELL 100 AIWC @ $45". A limit order to sell is called an "ask".

But you're not the only prospective seller of AIWC stock. There's also an ask for $44/share and an ask for $46/share. If Alan Greenspan wants to buy AIWC, he's obviously going to pay as little as possible. So he'll take the $44 offer first, and only buy from you at $45 if he can't buy as much as he wants at $44.

The set of all standing bids and asks is called a "limit order book", or just a "book". You can buy a data feed from the stock market, and they will send you messages in real time telling you about changes to the book. Each message either adds an order to the book, or reduces the size of an order in the book (possibly removing the order entirely). You can record these messages in a log file, and later you can go back and analyze your log file.

## 2. Problem

Your task is to write a program, _Pricer_, that analyzes such a log file. _Pricer_ takes one command-line argument: _target-size_. _Pricer_ then reads a market data log on standard input. As the book is modified, _Pricer_ prints (on standard output) the total expense you would incur if you bought _target-size_ shares (by taking as many asks as necessary, lowest first), and the total income you would receive if you sold _target-size_ shares (by hitting as many bids as necessary, highest first). Each time the income or expense changes, it prints the changed value.

### 2.1. Input Format

The market data log contains one message per line (terminated by a single linefeed character, '\n' in C or Java), and each message is a series of fields separated by spaces.

#### 2.1.1. Add Order to Book

An "Add Order" message looks like this:

```timestamp A order-id side price size```

Field | Meaning 
 ------------- | ------------- 
 _timestamp_ | The time when this message was generated by the market, as milliseconds since midnight. 
 _A_ | A literal string identifying this as an "Add Order to Book" message. 
 _order-id_ | A unique string that subsequent "Reduce Order" messages will use to modify this order. 
 _side_ | A '_B_' if this is a buy order (a bid), and a '_S_' if this is a sell order (an ask). 
 _price_ | The limit price of this order. 
 _size_ | The size in shares of this order, when it was initially sent to the market by some stock trader. 

#### 2.1.2. Reduce Order

A "Reduce Order" message looks like this:

```timestamp R order-id size```

Field | Meaning 
 ------------- | ------------- 
 _timestamp_ | The time when this message was generated by the market, as milliseconds since midnight. 
 _R_ | A literal string identifying this as an "Reduce Order" message. 
 _order-id_ | The unique string that identifies the order to be reduced. 
 _size_ | The amount by which to reduce the size of the order. This is not the new size of the order. If size is equal to or greater than the existing size of the order, the order is removed from the book. 

The log file messages are sorted by timestamp by the time _Pricer_ receives them.

### 2.2. Output Format

_Pricer_'s output consists of one message per line in this format:

```timestamp action total```

 Field | Meaning 
 ------------- | ------------- 
 _timestamp_ | The timestamp from the input message that caused this output message to be generated. 
 _action_ | A string: '_B_' if this message contains the new expense to buy _target-size_ shares, and '_S_' if this message contains the new income for selling _target-size_ shares. 
 _total_ | The total expense (if _action_ is '_B_') to buy _target-size_ shares, or the total income (if _action_ is '_S_') for selling _target-size_ shares.  If the book does not contain _target-size_ shares in the appropriate type of order  (asks for expense; bids for income), the _total_ field contains the string '_NA_'. 

If _Pricer_ encounters an error in an input message, it prints a warning to standard error and goes to the next message.

### 2.3. Example Input and Output

Here is an example run of _Pricer_ with a _target-size_ of 200. Input messages are in the left column. Notes and output messages are in the right column.


| Standard Input | Standard Output/Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| _28800538 A b S 44.26 100_ | No output yet because neither the bids nor the asks in the book have a total of 200 shares yet. |
| _28800562 A c B 44.10 100_ | Still not enough shares on either side of the book. |
| _28800744 R b 100_ | This reduces order '_b_' to zero shares, which removes it from the book, so now the book contains no asks. But there's still no change to the total income or expense on 200 shares. |
| _28800758 A d B 44.18 157_ | The bid sizes now total 257, which is more than the target size of 200. To sell 200 shares, you would first hit the bid at 44.18 for 157 shares, spending $6,936.26. Then you would hit the bid at 44.10 for the remaining 43 shares, spending another $1,896.30. Your total income would be $8832.56, so _Pricer_ emits this message: <pre>28800758 S 8832.56</pre> |
| _28800773 A e S 44.38 100_ | The book now contains a single ask of size 100, which is still not enough to change the target size expense from '_NA_'. |
| _28800796 R d 157_ | This removes bid 'd' from the book, leaving just one bid with a size of 100 on the book, so the income from selling changes to '_NA_':
<pre>28800796 S NA</pre> |
| _28800812 A f B 44.18 157_ | This new bid brings the total bid size back over 200, so the selling income is no longer '_NA_': <pre>28800812 S 8832.56</pre> |
| _28800974 A g S 44.27 100_ | This ask brings the total ask size up to 200, exactly the target size. The total expense for buying 200 shares would be 100 * $44.27 + 100 * $44.38: <pre>28800974 B 8865.00</pre>|
| _28800975 R e 100_ | Removing ask 'e' from the book leaves less than 200 shares on the ask side, so the buying expense changes back to '_NA_': <pre>28800975 B NA</pre>|
| _28812071 R f 100_ | Reducing bid '_f_' by 100 shares leaves only 157 shares on the bid side, so the selling income changes to '_NA_' ```28812071 S NA```|
| _28813129 A h B 43.68 50_ | This new bid makes it possible to sell 200 shares: 57 at $44.18, 100 at $44.10, and the last 43 at $43.68.<pre>28813129 S 8806.50</pre>|
| _28813300 R f 57_ | This removes bid 'f' from the book, so it is no longer possible to sell 200 shares:<pre>28813300 S NA</pre>|
| _28813830 A i S 44.18 100_ | This ask makes it possible to buy 200 shares again: 100 at $44.18 and 100 at $44.27.<pre>28813830 B 8845.00</pre>|
| _28814087 A j S 44.18 1000_ | This ask has the same price as an existing ask, and these two asks are tied for the best asking price. This means you could now buy all 200 shares at $44.18 instead of buying half of them at $44.27, so the buying expense decreases: <pre>28814087 B 8836.00</pre>|
| _28814834 R c 100_ | This leaves only 50 shares on the bid side (all in order '_h_'), so it is still not possible to sell 200 shares. The selling income is therefore unchanged from '_NA_' and _Pricer_ prints no output message. |
| _28814864 A k B 44.09 100_ | Only 150 shares on the bid side, so no output needed. |
| _28815804 A l B 44.07 175_ | There are now more than 200 shares on the bid side. You could buy 175 shares at $44.07 each, and the remaining 25 shares at $43.68 each: <pre>28815804 S 8804.25</pre>|
| _28815937 R j 1000_ | After ask '_j_' is removed from the book, you can still buy 200 shares: 100 at $44.18 each, and 100 at the worse price of $44.27. <pre>28815937 B 8845.00</pre>|
| _28816245 A m S 44.22 100_ | Since $44.22 is a better price than $44.27, the buying expense decreases: <pre>28816245 B 8840.00</pre>|

Note that the book initially contains no orders, and that the buying expense and selling income are both considered to start at '_NA_'. Since _Pricer_ only produces output when the income or expense changes, it does not print anything until the total size of all bids or the total size of all asks exceeds _target-size_.

## 3. What We're Looking For

Please supply us with your source code in any language you are comfortable with, also please answer these questions:

*   What is the time complexity for processing an _Add Order_ message?
*   What is the time complexity for processing a _Reduce Order_ message?
*   If your implementation were put into production and found to be too slow, what ideas would you try out to improve its performance?